docs: document application proxy (#3471)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-proxy.md

---
sidebar_label: "Configure Applications to Use Proxy Server"
title: "Configure Applications to Use Proxy Server"
description: "Guide to configure configurations in a cluster to use a proxy server."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 201
tags: ["clusters", "cluster management", "proxy"]
---

You can configure applications that operate in your Palette clusters to use a proxy server to access the internet
instead of accessing the internet directly.

Before you are able to configure applications in a cluster to use the proxy server, you must first ensure that the
cluster itself is configured to use the proxy server. This means that the host Operating System (OS) and the Palette
agent inside the cluster will use the proxy server for its outbound communications. The steps to do this vary depending
on your environment.

After the cluster is configured to use the proxy server, you can proceed to configure the applications inside the
cluster to use the proxy server. You can do this by applying the `spectrocloud.com/connection: proxy` label to the
specific job, deployment, or daemon set to instruct an application to use the proxy settings of the cluster.

## Prerequisites

> - An active proxy server reachable by your cluster.

Reviewer: I added this tip in the Azure proxy section as we have some limitations on what proxy servers we support due to gRPC.  Maybe we should do something similar here? We have a [page](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/architecture/grps-proxy/) in the Architecture section that dives into more details about this topic.

![CleanShot 2024-07-29 at 10 52 17](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ec85b062-325a-47a4-bae3-1dd83c83ef10)

<Tabs groupId="scenario">

<TabItem value="Palette SaaS Non-Edge">

> - A PCG is deployed into an active and healthy Kubernetes cluster. Refer to

Reviewer: You can either to deploy to an existing k8s cluster, or use the Palette CLI. However, keep in mind that the CLI can only be used to deploy PCGs to OpeStack, Vsphere, or MAAS. All other platforms require the the existing k8s cluster install method through Helm.  So we should link to either the k8s deploy guide or the index page to the CLI install [page](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/pcg/deploy-pcg/).

  [Deploy a PCG to an Existing Kubernetes Cluster](../pcg/deploy-pcg-k8s.md) for additional guidance.

  :::warning

  If you deployed a [PCG through the Palette CLI](../pcg/pcg.md#supported-environments), refer to the respective
  platform installation guide for instructions on how to configure proxy settings during the installation process
  through the CLI.

  :::

- The PCG is configured to use the proxy server that you intend for your applications to use for outbound
  communications. For more information, refer to

>   [Enabled and Manage Proxy Configurations](../pcg/manage-pcg/configure-proxy.md).

Reviewer: Maybe we can combine these two into a single prereq and avoid the warning. It's a step that must be done, but how it is done depends on the PCG install method.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Self-Hosted Palette Non-Edge">

- A self-hosted Palette instance is deployed into an active and healthy Kubernetes cluster. Refer to
  [Self-Hosted Palette Installation](../../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-palette.md) for additional
  guidance.

- The self-hosted Palette instance is configured to use the proxy server that you intend for your applications to use
  for outbound communications.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Edge">

- Your Edge host is configured to use the proxy server that you intend for your applications to use for outbound
  communications. Refer to [Edge Host Installation](../edge/site-deployment/stage.md) for more information.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Configure Applications to Use Proxy Server

<Tabs groupId="scenario">

<TabItem value="Palette SaaS Non-Edge">

> 1.  If you are using Palette SaaS, and your cluster does not have direct access to the internet, then the communication

Reviewer: Clusters do not use PCG to communicate with Palette. The agent inside the cluster communicates directly with Palette through its outbound connection. The PCG reaches out to Palette to receive guidance on what clusters to create or delete. That is all the PCG does. WHen the PCG is instructed to create a cluster, it will provide the configurations required to create the cluster, which will include the proxy settings.

    between Palette SaaS and your cluster must go through a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG). For more information about
    PCGs, refer to [Private Cloud Gateway](../pcg/pcg.md). You must configure proxy settings for the PCG, and then
    clusters created by cloud accounts configured to use the PCG will inherit its proxy settings.

    If you are provisioning the PCG using the Palette CLI, you can configure the proxy settings during the PCG
    installation through the Palette CLI's interactive prompts. If you are using Helm to provision a PCG or have an
    existing PCG that is not yet configured to use proxy, refer to
    [Enable and Manage Proxy Configurations for PCG](../pcg/manage-pcg/configure-proxy.md) to learn how to install Reach
    on a PCG cluster and use it to configure proxy settings.

> 2.  Once you have configured proxy settings through Reach for your PCG, you can proceed to create your cluster using a

Reviewer: SaaS customers will have to register a new cloud account in Palette and specify the PCG. They cannot alter existing cloud accounts. I think it would help if we link to the three public cloud accounts registration guides to help the user.

    cloud account associated with the PCG. The cluster will inherit proxy settings from the PCG automatically.

    However, you still need to specify which applications will use the proxy settings. You can do this by applying the
    `spectrocloud.com/connection: proxy` label to the deployment, job, or daemon set in the pack that contains your
    application.

    You must apply the label to every specific job, deployment, or daemon set that needs to use the proxy servers. For
    example, if you have a Kafka deployment that requires access to the internet through your proxy, you need to apply
    the label to the Kafka deployment.

    ```yaml {10}
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: kafka
    spec:
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: kafka
            spectrocloud.com/connection: proxy

>     ```

Reviewer: This part might benefit from geing its own step as it focuses on the cluster profile. That way we don;t overload step 2 as there is a lot going on there with the account registration and limitation of existing account not being able to use the PCG.

3.  Continue with the cluster creation process and provision your cluster. For more information, refer to
    [Clusters](../clusters.md) and choose the infrastructure provider of your choice.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Self-Hosted Palette Non-Edge">

1.  If you are using a self-hosted Palette instance, you have the opportunity to configure proxy settings during
    installation. If you are using the Palette CLI for installation, refer to
    [Self Hosted Palette - Installation](../../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/install.md) to
    learn how to specify proxy settings during installation. If you used Helm charts for installation, refer to

>     [Enable and Manage Proxy Configurations](../pcg/manage-pcg/add-dns-mapping.md) to learn how to install reach and use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [Enable and Manage Proxy Configurations](../pcg/manage-pcg/configure-proxy.md) to learn how to install reach and use
```

Fixed the URL
